The textwrap module can be used for wrapping and formatting of plain text. This module provides formatting of text by adjusting the line breaks in the input paragraph.

The TextWrapper instance attributes (and keyword arguments to the constructor) are as follows:

width: This refers to the maximum length allowed of the wrapped lines. It’s default value is set to 70.
expand_tabs: It’s default value is set to TRUE. If the value is equal to true, then, all the tab characters in the sample input is expanded to spaces 
using this method.
tabsize: It’s default value is set to 8. This method expands all tab characters in text to zero or more spaces, depending on the current column and 
the given tab size, if the value of expand_tabs is TRUE.
replace_whitespace: It’s default value is set to TRUE. If the value is true, after tab expansion but before wrapping, the wrap() method replaces each 
whitespace character with a single space.These whitespace characters are replaced : tab, newline, vertical tab, formfeed, and carriage return (‘\t\n\v\f\r’).
drop_whitespace: It’s default value is set to TRUE. The whitespaces at the beginning and ending of every line (after wrapping but before indenting) is 
dropped if the value is set to TRUE.
initial_indent: It’s default value is set to’ ‘. This method prepends the given string to the first line of wrapped output.
subsequent_indent: It’s default value is set to ‘ ‘. This method prepends the given string to all the lines of wrapped output except the first.
placeholder: It’s default value is set to ‘ […]’. This method appends the string at the end of the output text if it has been truncated.
max_lines: It’s default value is set to None. If the value is not None, then the output text contains at most max_lines lines, having placeholder at 
the end of the output.
break_long_words: It’s default value is set to True. If TRUE, then words longer than width are broken to fit every line in the given width. 
If it is FALSE, long words will not be broken and will be put on a line by themselves, in order to minimize the amount by which width is exceeded.
break_on_hyphens: It’s default value is set to True. If the value is equal to TRUE, wrapping occurs on whitespaces and right after hyphens in compound words. 
If the value is equal to FALSE, line breaks occur only on whitespaces, but you need to set break_long_words to FALSE if you want truly insecable words.